README.md, before:

# VisionWhys

![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10+-blue.svg)
![OpenCV](https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenCV-4.11.0-green.svg)
![Transformers](https://img.shields.io/badge/Transformers-4.48.2-orange.svg)

A computer vision tool that leverages multimodal AI to analyze aerial scenes and identify objects that caused an autonomous vehicle to arrive at a certain decision.

## 🚀 Features

- Identifies and ranks critical objects in aerial scenes
- Extracts precise coordinates of objects causing a decisions
- Visualizes results with color-coded highlights
- Supports multiple analysis strategies

## 📋 Requirements

- Python 3.10+
- PyTorch with CUDA support
- OpenCV
- Transformers library
- Other dependencies listed in `requirements.txt`

## 🛠️ Installation

1. Clone this repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Azgeb/VisionWhys
cd VisionWhys
```

2. Create a virtual environment:

```bash
# On Windows
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate

# On macOS/Linux
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

3. Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## 🔍 Usage

Run the main script and follow the interactive prompts:

```bash
python main.py
```

You'll be asked to:
1. Enter the path to an image file
2. Select a prompt strategy (concise or detailed)

### Example:

```
Model loaded successfully. Enter image paths to analyze or type 'exit' to quit.
Enter the path to the image (or type 'exit' to quit): data/images/stop/stop1.jpg
Select prompt strategy ['concise', 'detailed'] [default: concise]: detailed
```

The program will then:
- Analyze the image with the selected AI model
- Extract ranked coordinates of critical objects
- Display the image with highlighted objects

## ⚙️ How It Works

1. **Image Analysis**: The program uses the [cyan2k/molmo-7B-D-bnb-4bit](https://huggingface.co/cyan2k/molmo-7B-D-bnb-4bit) multimodal model to analyze images
2. **Object Detection**: The AI identifies and ranks objects based on their importance for a decision
3. **Coordinate Extraction**: Coordinates are parsed from the AI's text response
4. **Visualization**: Objects are highlighted with color-coded circles based on their rank (points that are too close together get ignored).

## ⚙️ Configuration

You can customize the behavior in `config/config.py`:

- **Prompt Strategies**: Modify `PROMPT_CONCISE` or `PROMPT_DETAILED` to change how the AI interprets images
- **Model Selection**: Change the model in `MODEL_CONFIG`
- **Visualization**: Adjust highlight colors, sizes and opacity in `HIGHLIGHT_SETTINGS`
- **Object Filtering**: Modify `PROXIMITY_THRESHOLD` to control how close objects can be without getting ignored

## 📁 Project Structure

```
├── main.py              # Main application script
├── config/
│   └── config.py        # Configuration settings
├── data/
│   └── images/          # Test images organized by category
│       ├── left/
│       ├── right/
│       └── stop/
└── requirements.txt     # Dependencies
```

## 🔧 Advanced Usage

- Add more prompts in `config/config.py` by extending the `AVAILABLE_PROMPTS` dictionary
- Modify the highlight visualization by changing parameters in `HIGHLIGHT_SETTINGS`
- Add your own image directories under `data/images` for different scenarios

## 📝 License

MIT License
Copyright (c) 2025 Azgeb

Commit message:

Add limitations section to README.md regarding highlight circle radius

README.md, after:

# VisionWhys

![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10+-blue.svg)
![OpenCV](https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenCV-4.11.0-green.svg)
![Transformers](https://img.shields.io/badge/Transformers-4.48.2-orange.svg)

A computer vision tool that leverages multimodal AI to analyze aerial scenes and identify objects that caused an autonomous vehicle to arrive at a certain decision.

## 🚀 Features

- Identifies and ranks critical objects in aerial scenes
- Extracts precise coordinates of objects causing a decisions
- Visualizes results with color-coded highlights
- Supports multiple analysis strategies

## 📋 Requirements

- Python 3.10+
- PyTorch with CUDA support
- OpenCV
- Transformers library
- Other dependencies listed in `requirements.txt`

## 🛠️ Installation

1. Clone this repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Azgeb/VisionWhys
cd VisionWhys
```

2. Create a virtual environment:

```bash
# On Windows
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate

# On macOS/Linux
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

3. Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## 🔍 Usage

Run the main script and follow the interactive prompts:

```bash
python main.py
```

You'll be asked to:
1. Enter the path to an image file
2. Select a prompt strategy (concise or detailed)

### Example:

```
Model loaded successfully. Enter image paths to analyze or type 'exit' to quit.
Enter the path to the image (or type 'exit' to quit): data/images/stop/stop1.jpg
Select prompt strategy ['concise', 'detailed'] [default: concise]: detailed
```

The program will then:
- Analyze the image with the selected AI model
- Extract ranked coordinates of critical objects
- Display the image with highlighted objects

## ⚙️ How It Works

1. **Image Analysis**: The program uses the [cyan2k/molmo-7B-D-bnb-4bit](https://huggingface.co/cyan2k/molmo-7B-D-bnb-4bit) multimodal model to analyze images
2. **Object Detection**: The AI identifies and ranks objects based on their importance for a decision
3. **Coordinate Extraction**: Coordinates are parsed from the AI's text response
4. **Visualization**: Objects are highlighted with color-coded circles based on their rank (points that are too close together get ignored).

## ⚙️ Configuration

You can customize the behavior in `config/config.py`:

- **Prompt Strategies**: Modify `PROMPT_CONCISE` or `PROMPT_DETAILED` to change how the AI interprets images
- **Model Selection**: Change the model in `MODEL_CONFIG`
- **Visualization**: Adjust highlight colors, sizes and opacity in `HIGHLIGHT_SETTINGS`
- **Object Filtering**: Modify `PROXIMITY_THRESHOLD` to control how close objects can be without getting ignored

## 📁 Project Structure

```
├── main.py              # Main application script
├── config/
│   └── config.py        # Configuration settings
├── data/
│   └── images/          # Test images organized by category
│       ├── left/
│       ├── right/
│       └── stop/
└── requirements.txt     # Dependencies
```

## Limitations 🚧

One notable limitation of the current implementation is the inability to dynamically determine the optimal radius for the highlight circle. During testing, all predefined radii were either too large or too small, and the results consistently produced similar outcomes regardless of the chosen radius. This suggests that the system lacks the capability to adaptively adjust the circle size based on context or input data.

Future improvements could focus on implementing a mechanism to calculate the radius dynamically, ensuring better adaptability and precision

## 🔧 Advanced Usage

- Add more prompts in `config/config.py` by extending the `AVAILABLE_PROMPTS` dictionary
- Modify the highlight visualization by changing parameters in `HIGHLIGHT_SETTINGS`
- Add your own image directories under `data/images` for different scenarios

## 📝 License

MIT License
Copyright (c) 2025 Azgeb
